projects/work-with-urls/how-to-use/modify-urls.md, before:

## Modify URLs

The addon allows you to obfuscate, deobfuscate and decode URLs.

This is very useful when sharing malicous URLs in order to avoid opening unwanted links.

### Deobfuscate URLs

Example. This option will convert the URL hXXps[:]//github[.]com/CarlosAMolina to https://github.com/CarlosAMolina.

Required steps:

1. The modification rules must be configured by the user, please read the `Configuration` section.
2. Paste the desired URLs in the box below `URLs`. Each URL in a different line.
3. Click the `Clean URLs` button in the main addon's menu and the URLs will be modified in the box below `URLs`. 

Note. As the decode URLs option uses the `Clean URLs` button too, be sure the button below `Decode URLs` in the configuration menu is off (open this menu by clicking the `Configuration` button), otherwise, the URLs will be decoded instead of deobfuscated.

### Decode URLs

Example. This option will convert the URL http%3A%2F%2Fexample.com%2Fabcd%3Flanguage%3DEN to http://example.com/abcd?language=EN.

1. Click the `Configuration` button and activate the button below `Decode URLs`.
2. Paste the desired URLs in the box below `URLs`. Each URL in a different line.
3. Click the `Clean URLs` button in the main addon's menu and the URLs will be modified in the box below `URLs`. 

### Obfuscate URLs

Example. This option will convert the URL https://github.com/CarlosAMolina to hXXps[:]//github[.]com/CarlosAMolina.

Required steps:

1. The modification rules must be configured by the user, please read the `Configuration` section.
2. Paste the desired URLs in the box below `URLs`. Each URL in a different line.
3. Click the `Obfuscate` button in the main addon's menu and the URLs will be modified in the box below `URLs`.

Commit message:

Add projects. Change addon to add-on

projects/work-with-urls/how-to-use/modify-urls.md, after:

## Modify URLs

The add-on allows you to obfuscate, deobfuscate and decode URLs.

This is very useful when sharing malicous URLs in order to avoid opening unwanted links.

### Deobfuscate URLs

Example. This option will convert the URL hXXps[:]//github[.]com/CarlosAMolina to https://github.com/CarlosAMolina.

Required steps:

1. The modification rules must be configured by the user, please read the `Configuration` section.
2. Paste the desired URLs in the box below `URLs`. Each URL in a different line.
3. Click the `Clean URLs` button in the main add-on's menu and the URLs will be modified in the box below `URLs`. 

Note. As the decode URLs option uses the `Clean URLs` button too, be sure the button below `Decode URLs` in the configuration menu is off (open this menu by clicking the `Configuration` button), otherwise, the URLs will be decoded instead of deobfuscated.

### Decode URLs

Example. This option will convert the URL http%3A%2F%2Fexample.com%2Fabcd%3Flanguage%3DEN to http://example.com/abcd?language=EN.

1. Click the `Configuration` button and activate the button below `Decode URLs`.
2. Paste the desired URLs in the box below `URLs`. Each URL in a different line.
3. Click the `Clean URLs` button in the main add-on's menu and the URLs will be modified in the box below `URLs`. 

### Obfuscate URLs

Example. This option will convert the URL https://github.com/CarlosAMolina to hXXps[:]//github[.]com/CarlosAMolina.

Required steps:

1. The modification rules must be configured by the user, please read the `Configuration` section.
2. Paste the desired URLs in the box below `URLs`. Each URL in a different line.
3. Click the `Obfuscate` button in the main add-on's menu and the URLs will be modified in the box below `URLs`.
